.TH UNSQUASHFS 1 "2010\-03\-14" "4.0" "uncompress squashfs filesystems"

.SH NAME
mksquashfs \- tool to uncompress squashfs filesystems

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBunsquashfs\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILESYSTEM\fR [\fIdirectories or files to extract\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Squashfs is a highly compressed read\-only filesystem for Linux. It uses zlib compression to compress both files, inodes and directories. Inodes in the system are very small and all blocks are packed to minimise data overhead. Block sizes greater than 4K are supported up to a maximum of 64K.
.PP
Squashfs is intended for general read\-only filesystem use, for archival use (i.e. in cases where a .tar.gz file may be used), and in constrained block device/memory systems (e.g. embedded systems) where low overhead is needed.

.SH OPTIONS
.IP "\-da[ta-queue] \fIsize\fR" 4
Set data queue to \fIsize\fR Mbytes. Default 256 Mbytes.
.IP "\-d[est] \fIpathname\fR" 4
unsquash to \fIpathname\fR, default "squashfs-root".
.IP "\-e[f] \fIextract file\fR" 4
list of directories or files to extract. One per line.
.IP "\-f[orce]" 4
if file already exists then overwrite.
.IP "\-fr[ag-queue] \fIsize\fR" 4
Set fagment queue to \fIsize\fR Mbytes. Default 256 Mbytes.
.IP "\-i[nfo]" 4
print files as they are unsquashed.
.IP "\-li[nfo]" 4
print files as they are unsquashed with file attributes (like ls -l output).
.IP "\-ll[s]" 4
list filesystem with file attributes (like ls -l output), but don't unsquash.
.IP "\-l[s]" 4
list filesystem, but don't unsquash.
.IP "\-n[o-progress]" 4
don't display the progress bar.
.IP "\-p[rocessors] \fInumber\fR" 4
use \fInumber\fR processors. By default will use number of processors available.
.IP "\-r[egex]" 4
treat extract names as POSIX regular expressions rather than use the default shell wildcard expansion (globbing).
.IP "\-s[tat]" 4
display filesystem superblock information.
.IP "\-v[ersion]" 4
print version, licence and copyright information.

.SH SEE ALSO
mksquashfs(1)

.SH HOMEPAGE
More information about unsquashfs and the squashfs filesystem can be found at <\fIhttp://squashfs.sourceforge.net/\fR>.

.SH AUTHOR
squashfs was written by Phillip Lougher <\fIplougher@users.sourceforge.net\fR>.
.PP
This manual page was written by Daniel Baumann <\fIdaniel@debian.org\fR>, for the Debian project (but may be used by others).
